`Web docs` - Moving table based content to a new section. (#3157)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/content/table-guidelines/index.md

---
title: Table guidelines
caption: Writing guidance for tabular data.
description: Writing guidance for tabular data.
previewImage: assets/illustrations/content/writing-guidelines.jpg
related:
  - components/table/table
  - components/table/advanced-table
---

This documentation provides best practices for writing tabular content, such as with the [Table](/components/table/table) and [Advanced Table](/components/table/advanced-table) components.

## General recommendations

While we are not prescriptive about what goes into table cells, there are some best practices to consider:

- We recommended keeping data within a column to one data type. Sorting on multiple data types is technically difficult and makes content reading confusing for assistive technologies.

> - While changing the text style/color within a cell is possible, we recommend only using Helios font styles and colors.

Author: I wasn't the original author of this, but I believe the intent was that because in Figma consumers have to manually adjust the text styles and colors, they should use ours vs custom ones.

> - While changing the text style/color within a cell is possible, we recommend only using Helios font styles and colors.

Author: Resolving!

## Icon usage

Icons used within cells can help differentiate content, highlight additional metadata, increase the hierarchy of a value, or otherwise _enhance_ the text or value it is paired with. Use the outlined icon style by default and if contrast against other icons is important, use the filled style.

!!! Dont

> Don’t use an icon as the sole communication method within a cell, even if the icon is explicit, e.g., a brand or service icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don’t use an icon as the sole content within a cell, even if the icon is explicit, e.g., a brand or service icon.
```

![Icon within a table without a label](/assets/content/table-guidelines/icon-without-label.png)
!!!

!!! Dont

> We don’t recommend using an icon to indicate the status of an object, row, or resource. Instead, consider using a [Badge](/components/badge).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don’t use an icon to indicate the status of an object, row, or resource. Instead, use a [Badge](/components/badge).
```

![Icons being used for status](/assets/content/table-guidelines/icon-status.png)
!!!

### Service icons

Use service icons within a cell to communicate the source or provider of a service.

![Service icon within a table](/assets/content/table-guidelines/with-service-icon.png)

### Grouping

Use icons to communicate commonalities between values or that a value is part of a larger object or hierarchical structure.

![Icons used for grouping in a table](/assets/content/table-guidelines/icon-grouping.png)

### Product branding

Use icons to communicate that a specific item is a HashiCorp product or resource.

![Icon product branding](/assets/content/table-guidelines/icon-product-branding.png)

!!! Dont

Don’t use an [Icon Tile](/components/icon-tile) in place of an icon within a table cell.

![Icon Tile within a table cell](/assets/content/table-guidelines/icon-tile-product-branding.png)
!!!

### Leading vs. trailing icons

> In general, we recommend using **leading icons** because the text following the icon will remain aligned and thus be easier for the user to scan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, we recommend using **leading icons** because the text following the icon will remain aligned and thus be easier for the user to visually scan.
```

Don’t mix and match different icon positions in the same column.

## Links within cells

> By default, we recommend using `secondary` [Inline Links](/components/link/inline) within tables, to avoid overloading the UI with the actionable blue color. The `secondary` variant uses the `foreground-strong` color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using `secondary` [Inline Links](/components/link/inline) within tables, to avoid overloading the UI with the actionable blue color used by the `primary` color variant.
```

To increase the prominence and further differentiate links from other text content, we recommend using a font-weight of `medium`. In code, you can use the CSS helper classes `hds-typography-body-200` and `hds-font-weight-medium`. In Figma, you can use the text style `Body/200/Link`.

![Link example](/assets/content/table-guidelines/link-example.png)

### Multiple links

> If a table contains more than one column of links, consider using a `font-weight` of `medium` for the most important links, usually the title of the row or ID. For less important links, use a `font-weight` of `regular`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a table contains more than one column of links, consider using a `font-weight` of `medium` for only the most important links, usually the title of the row or ID. For the other links, use a `font-weight` of `regular`.
```

![Multiple links within a table](/assets/content/table-guidelines/multiple-links.png)

### Links in long-form content

> If a cell contains long-form or descriptive content, use the link style that is most appropriate for the hierarchy and frequency of links within the content. If there are a minimal number of links, `primary` [Inline Links](/components/link/inline) may be appropriate, but if there are many links `secondary` [Inline Links](/components/link/inline) may work better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a cell contains long-form or descriptive content, use the link style that is most appropriate for the hierarchy and frequency of links within the content. For a minimal number of links, `primary` [Inline Links](/components/link/inline) may be appropriate, but if there are many links within the content `secondary` [Inline Links](/components/link/inline) may work better.
```

![Links in long-form content](/assets/content/table-guidelines/longform-content-links.png)

## Badge usage

Use [Badges](/components/badge) to communicate status and high-priority metadata within tables.

### Badge type

> We recommend using `outlined` [Badges](/components/badge) within tables. This variant provides enough differentiation between the component, the value in the cell, and the background of a table row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using `outlined` [Badges](/components/badge) within tables. This variant provides sufficient differentiation between the component, the value in the cell, and the background of a table row without being too heavy.
```

I would consider expanding upon this a bit to better explain. If they use the solid variant instead, for example, is it too heavy? (I added the last part of the suggestion following this but please adjust if it's not quite right.)
